.. _Cohorts Overview:

##########################################
Using Cohorts to Build Course Communities
##########################################

Cohorts create smaller communities of students within a course. Students who
are in a cohort can communicate and share experiences privately within course
discussion topics.

When you decide to use cohorts in your course:

* Discussion topics are either open to participation by all students, or
  divided to support private interactions among the members of each cohort. See
  :ref:`Options for Discussion Topics`.

* Each student is in one and only one cohort. See :ref:`Options for Assigning
  Students to Cohorts`.

* Every student must be in a cohort. This assures that every student has the
  ability to read and contribute to every discussion topic.

To provide a consistent experience throughout the course run, each student's
assignment to a cohort should remain unchanged after the course begins.

For more information, see:

* :ref:`Enabling and Configuring Cohorts`

* :ref:`Moderating Discussions for Cohorts`

For more information about discussions, see :ref:`Discussions`.

.. _Options for Discussion Topics:

*********************************
Options for Discussion Topics
*********************************

By enabling the cohort feature in a course, you provide students with the
ability to ask questions of, and have conversations with, other members of
their own cohorts. Through these proviate discussions, cohort feature can help
students develop a sense of community, provide specialized experiences, and
encourage deeper, more meaningful course involvement.

Enabling the cohort feature has the following effects on the discussion topics
in the course.

* All of the content-specific discussion topics are configured to support
  private interactions, among the members of each cohort only. A student who is
  assigned to one cohort group cannot read or add to the posts, responses, or
  comments contributed by the members of another cohort group.

  You cannot change the configuration of these topics. You create content-
  specific discussion topics in a course by adding units that include
  discussion components.

* All of the course-wide discussion topics are, by default, open to all of the
  students in the course, regardless of their cohort group assignments. All
  students can post, read, respond, and comment in these topics without regard
  to cohort.

  You can configure course-wide discussion topics to support private
  interactions among the members of the cohort groups. For example, you might
  decide to keep the topics that you set up for Troubleshooting, Feedback, and
  Frequently Asked Questions open to all students, but change the General
  discussion topic so that it supports conversations that are specific to the
  members of each cohort. You create course-wide discussion topics on the
  **Advanced Settings** page in Studio.

For more information about course-wide and content-specific discussion topics,
see :ref:`Organizing_discussions`.

.. _Options for Assigning Students to Cohorts:

*****************************************
Options for Assigning Students to Cohorts
*****************************************

After you enable the cohort feature, you can configure it so that students are
assigned to their cohorts automatically or manually. You can also use a
combination of both assignment methods. Typically, your purpose in using the
cohort feature determines which assignment option you will use for your course.

.. note:: When you choose to include the cohort feature in a course, all 
 enrolled students must be assigned to a cohort.

.. _All Automated Assignment:

=============================================================
Making MOOC Discussions Manageable: All Automated Assignment
=============================================================

In very large courses, the number of posts made to course discussion topics can
make for a daunting amount of daily reading. In such courses, dividing the
enrollees into separate cohorts makes the volume of posts, responses, and
comments by the members of each one more manageable, and is more likely to
foster community feeling.

To implement this assignment strategy, you enable the cohort feature and create
a set of "auto" cohort groups. The first time a student visits the course
**Discussion** page, he or she is randomly assigned to one of the cohort
groups. Together, all of the students assigned to a group are a cohort.

.. Greg I expect I am oversimplifying this, Is it a visit to any discussion topic as well as the Discussion page?

Based on the experiences of MOOC teams that have used the cohort feature in
this way, these guidelines are suggested to help you determine how many auto
cohort groups to define for your course.

* Out of every 10,000 students who enroll, approximately 200 to 400 students
  are active in the discussions.

* Divide the estimated total enrollment of the course run by 10,000.

* Use the result as the number of auto cohort groups to create.

For example, two days before it starts a course has an enrollment of 80,000
students. To create small communities within the discussions, the course team
enables the cohort feature with automated assignment, and creates eight auto
cohort groups. As they visit the **Discussion** page, students are assigned to
one of the cohorts. In discussion topics that support private interactions,
students read and respond to contributions made by other members of the same
cohort only.

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Automated Assignment
Strategy`.

.. _All Manual Assignment:

==========================================================
Grouping by Common Characteristic: All Manual Assignment
==========================================================

In SPOCs and other courses with small- to medium-sized enrollments, known
existing commonalities can be used to identify cohorts. An example is a course
that enrolls students from different companies, or from different educational
backgrounds. When students are assigned to cohorts on the basis of the
characteristic they share, they can privately discuss applications for what
they are learning and explore resources and ideas that are of particular
interest.

To implement this assignment strategy, you identify the cohorts that your
students belong to already. You then enable the cohort feature and create a
"manual" cohort group for each of the cohorts. You then manually assign each
student to one of the manual cohort groups. Every student who enrolls,
including after the course starts, must be assigned to the appropriate manual
cohort group.

.. Leslie, Zach: do we have guidance for a minimum or maximum number to put into a cohort group manually? size of course for which this is practical?

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Manual Assignment Strategy`.

.. _Hybrid Assignment:

=============================================================
Accomodating Small Groups Within a Course: Hybrid Assignment
=============================================================

For some courses, the purely manual assignment strategy isn't feasible, and the
automated assignment strategy doesn't accommodate existing groups in the
student body. The enrollment may be too large to manually assign effectively,
or only some students have strong defining characteristics among an otherwise
diverse student body. An example is a course that has enrolls members of an
alumni association but is otherwise open. For these courses, you can use a
hybrid of the two strategies to implement the cohort feature.

First, you identify the characteristics that define cohorts in the student
body. After you enable the cohort feature, you create a manual cohort group for
each cohort you identify, plus a single auto cohort group. You assign the
students who you can identify as belonging to a cohort to the corresponsding
group manually. Every student who you do not manually assign to a cohort group
is automatically placed into the one auto group when they visit the
**Discussion** page.

For more information, see :ref:`Implementing the Automated Assignment
Strategy` and :ref:`Implementing the Manual Assignment Strategy`.
