.. _Moderating Discussions for Cohorts:

###################################################
Configuring and Moderating Discussions for Cohorts
###################################################




********************************
Identifying Who Can See a Post 
********************************

In a course with the cohort feature enabled, all posts include a cohort
indicator above the title. This indicator appears after a student or staff
member adds each post. No configuration by the course team is necessary to
include this identifier. You can share the information in the :ref:`Read the
Cohort Indicator in Posts` section with your students.

Course teams can name the discussion topics in a course to indicate who will be
able to see posts to that topic. See :ref:`Apply Naming Conventions to
ContentSpecific Topics` and :ref:`Apply Naming Conventions to CourseWide
Topics`.

.. _Read the Cohort Indicator in Posts:

==================================
Read the Cohort Indicator in Posts
==================================

Every post includes a sentence that identifies whether everyone can see and
contribute to it, or only the members of a cohort of students within the
course.

.. image:: ../Images/post_visible_all.png
 :alt: A discussion topic post with "This post is visible to everyone" above 
       the title

.. image:: ../Images/post_visible_cohort.png
 :alt: A discussion topic post with "This post is visible to" and a cohort name
       above the title

You see this identifier after you add your post. The responses and comments
that others contribute to a post are visible to the same group of people as the
post itself.

.. _Apply Naming Conventions to ContentSpecific Topics:

=========================================================
Apply Naming Conventions to Content-Specific Topics
=========================================================

All of the content-specific discussion topics that you add to units in Studio
support private conversations for cohorts. You can give students this context
before they add posts to these topics by using an appropriate naming convention
for the Discussion components in your course.

When you edit a Discussion component in Studio, you can include an identifier
like "(private)" or "(small group)" in the **Subcategory** name.

.. image:: ../Images/discussion_topic_names.png
 :alt: The Subcategory name that you supply for a Discussion component in
       Studio appears on the dropdown lists of discussion topics in the live
       course

When students visit the **Discussion** page, the subcategory name cues the
student that posts to those topics, and the responses and comments made to
them, are private group interactions.

.. note:: All students see the same **Subcategory** name.

To provide a consistent experience for your students, apply the same identifier
to all of the content-specific discussion topics.

For more information, see :ref:`Create a Discussion Component`.

.. _Apply Naming Conventions to CourseWide Topics:

===============================================
Apply Naming Conventions to Course-Wide Topics
===============================================

You can define which of the course-wide discussion topics are open to all
students and which support private group interactions for student cohorts.

You can use naming conventions for your course-wide discussion topics to
distinguish cohort-specific topics from topics that are open to all students.

.. image:: ../Images/discussion_category_names.png
 :alt: The names you supply for course-wide topics in Studio appear on the 
       dropdown list of discussion topics in the live course

When students visit the **Discussion** page and use the dropdown lists to
select a topic, the topic names indicate who can see the posts, responses, and
comments.

To provide a consistent experience for your students, apply the same identifier
that you use for the content-specific discussion topics to any course-wide
topics that you configured to be private.

For more information, see :ref:`Organizing_discussions` or :ref:`Identifying
Private CourseWide Discussion Topics`.

********************************
Moderating a Course with Cohorts 
********************************



============================================
Community TAs
============================================